hey everyone welcome to my channel my
name is wade patterson and if this is
your first time landing on this channel
why don't you start off by subscribing i
would really appreciate it my channel is
all about improving your communication
whether that's related to toastmasters
specifically or if you just want to be a
better communicator in general this
video is all about how to do your
icebreaker speech at a toastmasters
meeting and if this is your situation
you're about to take on the icebreaker
speech
congratulations this is a huge step it's
a scary step but a huge step nonetheless
and you should be very proud and excited
that you've even gotten to this point
and that you've signed up and you're
ready to take on the icebreaker speech
so let's start off with what is the
icebreaker speech at toastmasters and
it's a four to six minute speech which
is slightly shorter than the standard
five to seven minute speech and it's all
about you it's all about yourself and
introducing yourself to your
toastmasters club and it's the first
speech any toastmaster takes on within
the pathways program my first tip for
you regarding the icebreaker speech is
that it doesn't have to be perfect the
icebreaker speech is all about just that
breaking the ice introducing yourself to
the club your club members will
understand if you get nervous if you
need to use notes
this is simply a starting point on your
toastmasters journey to identify some of
the skills you already have and some of
the things that you can improve upon in
the future one of the best ways to take
on the icebreaker is to tell a familiar
story when somebody asks you to tell
them about yourself what types of things
do you say do you talk about the town or
city that you grew up in do you talk
about sports that you've played do you
talk about what you took in university
or college do you tell a funny story
that happened as a child perhaps it's
something where you imagined as a
five-year-old you were going to be an
astronaut and then life took you on a
completely different journey and then
you ended up a carpenter
whatever it is that you have as a
conversation piece in those informal
conversations that's often a great entry
point into what can be great content for
an icebreaker speech remember there's no
right or wrong creativity is completely
allowed in the speech because it's all
about you and it's all about your
starting point in toastmasters the next
suggestion i would make is that you
don't write out your speech word for
word
now can you have notes absolutely notes
are probably what 90 percent of people
will use on their icebreaker speech
because especially for someone joining
toastmasters who's not already at a
certain level of speaker
that's required it's part of it's kind
of the training wheels as you get going
and eventually you want to be a speaker
who doesn't have to use or reference
notes but that's chapter 20 that's not
chapter one if you're on chapter one
absolutely you're going to have some
notes but it's a really good idea to get
into a good habit of how you take your
nose and i would strongly say that you
shouldn't write out all of your notes
word for word
if you write out word for word it's
really tempting to hold the piece of
paper and read verbatim everything
you've written down and that's going to
eliminate so many positive things that
come with a great speech things like
body language things like vocal variety
are more difficult when you're reading
off of a page instead of writing out
your speech word for word
write simple
things that jog your memory as an
example let's use the astronaut turned
carpenter example things you may want to
write down for notes is specifics on how
to introduce the speech the introduction
perhaps it's a sentence like
as a five-year-old i knew i was going to
go to space
but as a 35 year old i quickly realized
that dream was not meant for me it's a
random example off the top of my head
but something like that that draws in
the audience of okay i'm gonna be taking
on a journey here of how did this
five-year-old how did we get from the
five-year-old thinking that he was going
to be an astronaut all the way to a 35
year old who realizes okay life took me
on a different path it's something to
draw in the audience so that
introduction sentence that can be pretty
much word for word if you need it but
it's good to memorize that and then have
it on a piece of paper if you need to
reference it but for the rest of the
speech simply have
words or phrases that jog your memory
perhaps you had a teacher in second
grade who was doing a
segment on space travel and that was
what first drew you in to your interest
in wanting to be an astronaut well
rather than write out word for word all
of the details about that simply maybe
write the teacher's name write grade two
story or whatever it is that will jog
your memory and you know that off the
top of your head you don't need to read
a story word for word think about it in
the informal conversation if you're
simply having a conversation with
someone they asked you about it you
would just tell them you wouldn't say oh
let me go get my notes so i can read to
you how i dreamt of being an astronaut
same thing when public speaking subtle
references throughout the story to jog
your memory is the best way to go so to
recap in terms of notes introduction
sure write out that sentence as a full
sentence again you're going to memorize
it however that's there in case you
forget on the spot because we get
nervous when we speak in front of people
you have that crutch there then simply
words or phrases maybe five or six
throughout the speech that will jog your
memory different themes to talk about
and then a conclusion sentence again you
can write that one out word for words
similar to the introduction the last tip
i'm going to give you because i don't
want to overload you with too many
things the fact that you're even taking
on the icebreaker speech is amazing and
you need to practice that practice
practice practice as much as possible
but the last tip i will give you is that
within the toastmasters club and you may
have noticed this if you've been going
to several meetings there are
formalities people will say thank you mr
toastmaster
fellow toastmasters or thank you madame
toastmaster fellow toastmasters welcome
guests and then they begin speaking it's
a good idea to understand how your club
uses these formalities it's not required
as you get up for your icebreaker speech
most new members i've seen in our club
will simply go up and say hey everyone
this is my speech and it won't be formal
but if you can add in that little bit of
formality that is something you're going
to have to eventually do in the
toastmasters journey why not start right
away and very simply
it's if the toastmaster is the one
introducing you which he or she likely
will be you say thank you mr toastmaster
or madame toastmaster fellow
toastmasters which you're addressing the
entire club and then if there are any
guests so people who aren't regular
members of the club you can say and
welcome guests
and then you get into the introduction
that way you are going to look like a
polished toastmaster on your very first
speech i mentioned it a few seconds ago
but practice practice practice practice
does make perfect but don't write
everything down word for word
know that you are going to be fantastic
and whether this speech goes
phenomenally or
whether you stumble and forget a few
things and maybe forget to use body
language or vocal variety don't panic
don't worry that is what toastmasters is
about it's a growth experience you've
got to start somewhere and the fact
you're even starting with your
icebreaker speech is a huge step
congratulations and i wish you the best
of luck if this video brought you some
value please subscribe to my channel i
do a lot of toastmasters related videos
and impactful communication related
videos leave a comment below if you are
taking on your icebreaker speech i love
when people comment and they say hey
this video was helpful or maybe hey wade
you missed some of these tips you should
really include that in a future video i
love all of the comments i get i
appreciate it thanks so much and have a
great day